# Dissertation-QEOP-Water-Temperature

  This project aims to design and deploy a low-cost water temperature sensor system in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park (QEOP) in London, using Arduino MKR 1310 boards, DS18B20 temperature sensors and LoRa radio. The sensor data is communicated to users using a Raspberry Pi with an influx database for data capture and storage and Grafana for dashboard creation. A mobile application is further developed to display the real-time temperature and the record for individual locations or an overall trend. The experiments were performed first in the lab and then in the five selected sites in QEOP. <br /> <br />
  This project mainly has three contributions: 1) An open-source water temperature dataset for interested parties such as environmental scientists. 2) A methodology of collecting real-time data in the wild at different locations using low-cost IoT devices. 3) A single visualization platform reveals information once hidden and separated from multiple sources. <br /> <br />
  The captured data shows that 1) there is a temperature difference before and after the junction of polluted water from sewage outfall in Portlands Lake East, but it is more likely to be caused by thermal radiation. 2) river temperature in the shaded sections tend to be cooler than in unshaded sections, so planting trees at the riverside helps cool down rivers from an urban heat island point of view. <br /> <br />
  Evaluation of the project suggests improving the setting of the sensor system in terms of waterproofing of the enclosure and positioning of the probe, as well as leaving the system for a year to see the temperature variations in different seasons. It is also purposed that visualization could be done more innovatively (such as AR/VR) in the future. 
